=head1 NAME

fink - a package management system

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fink> S<[ B<options> ]> S< B<command> > S<[ B<package> ]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<fink> is a package management system that aims to bring the full world
of GNU and other common Open Source software to Darwin and Mac OS X.
With the help of dpkg(8) it maintains a separate directory hierarchy. It
downloads original source releases, patches them if neccessary, configures
them for Darwin and compiles and installs them. The information about
available packages and the neccessary patches are included with this
distribution, everything else is downloaded off the Internet.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help> 

Display help text.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet> 

Causes fink to be less verbose, opposite of --verbose.

=item B<-V>, B<--version> 

Display fink version information.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose> 

Causes fink to be more verbose, opposite of --quiet.

=item B<-y>, B<--yes> 

Assume default answer for all interactive questions.

=back


=head1 COMMANDS


B<fink> has several commands that work on packages. All of them need at least
one package name, and all can handle several package names at once. You can
specify just the package name (e.g. gimp), or a fully qualified name with a
version number (e.g. gimp-1.2.1 or gimp-1.2.1-3). Fink will automatically
choose the latest available version and revision when they are not
specified.

=over

=item B<install> I<package...>

The install command is used to install packages. It downloads, configure,
builds and installs the packages you name. It will also install required
dependencies automatically, but will ask you for confirmation before it
does so.

Aliases: B<update>, B<enable>, B<activate>, B<use>

=item B<remove> I<package...>

The remove command removes packages from the system by calling C<dpkg --remove>.
The current implementation has some flaws: It only works on
packages Fink knows about (i.e. where an .info file is present); and it
doesn't check dependencies itself but rather completly leaves that to the
dpkg tool (usually this poses no problem, though).

The remove command only removes the actual package files, but leaves the .deb
compressed package file intact. This means that you can re-install the
package later without going through the compile process again. If you need
the disk space, you can remove the .deb from the F<@PREFIX@/fink/dists> tree.

Aliases: B<disable>, B<deactivate>, B<unuse>, B<delete>, B<purge>

=item B<update-all>

This command updates all installed packages to the latest version. It does
not need a package list, so you just type: C<fink update-all>

=item B<list> I<[ options ]> I<[ package... ]>

This command produces a list of available packages, listing installation
status, the latest version and a short description. If you call it without
parameters, it will list all available packages. You can also pass a name or
a shell pattern, and fink will list all packages that match.

There are some options available for the list command, and they are as follows:

=over

=item B<-w>=I<xyz>, B<--width>=I<xyz>   

Sets the width of the display you would like the output
formatted for. xyz is either a numeric value or auto.
auto will set the width based on the terminal width.

=item B<-t>, B<--tab>

Outputs the list with the tab char as a delimiter 
between fields. Useful for GUI implementations.

=item B<-i>, B<--installed>

lists only installed packages.

=item B<-u>, B<--uptodate>        

lists only packages which are up to date.

=item B<-o>, B<--outdated>        

lists packages for which a newer version is available.

=item B<-n>, B<--notinstalled> 

lists packages which are not installed.

=item B<-s>=I<expr>, B<--section>=I<expr>      

lists packages in the sections matching the expr. eg C<fink list --section=x11>

=item B<-h>, B<--help> 

Display help text.

=back

The first column of the output displays the installation state with the following meanings:

     not installed
  i  latest version is installed
 (i) installed, but a newer version is available

Some usage examples:

=over

=item fink list

list all packages.

=item fink list bash

check if bash is available and what version.

=item fink list "gnome*"

list all packages that start with 'gnome'.  

=back

The quotes in the last example are necessary to stop the shell from
interpreting the pattern itself.    

=item B<describe> I<package>

This command displays a description of the package you name on the command
line. Note that not all of the packages currently have a
description.

Aliases: B<desc>, B<description>, B<info>

=item B<fetch> I<package>

Downloads the named packages, but does not install it. This command will
download the tarballs even if they were downloaded before.

=item B<fetch-all>

Downloads all package source files. Like fetch, this downloads the
tarballs even when they were downloaded before.

=item B<fetch-missing>

Downloads all package source files. This command will only download files
that are not present on the system.

=item B<build> I<package...>

Builds a package, but does not install it. As usual, the source tarballs are
downloaded if they can not be found. The result of this command is an
installable .deb package file, which you can quickly install later with the
install command. This command will do nothing if the .deb already exists.
Note that dependencies are still installed not just built.

=item B<rebuild> I<package>

Builds a package (like the B<build> command), but ignores and overwrites the 
existing .deb file. If the package is installed, the newly created .deb file 
will also be installed in the system via dpkg(8) .

=item B<configure>

Reruns the B<fink> configuration process. This will let you change your mirror sites and
proxy settings, among others.

=item B<selfupdate>

This command automates the process of upgrading to a new
B<fink>
release. It checks the
B<fink>
website to see if a new version is available. It then downloads the package
descriptions and updates the core packages, including
B<fink>
itself. This command can upgrade to regular releases, but it can also
setup your @PREFIX@/fink/dists directory tree for direct CVS updates.
This means that you then will be able to access the very latest
revisions of all packages.

=item B<index>

Rebuilds the package cache. You should not normally need to execute this manually,
B<fink>
should auto-detect when it needs to be updated.


=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<@PREFIX@/var/db/fink.db>

Package cache database. Don't try to edit this manually, instead update it using
C<fink index>.

=item F<@PREFIX@/etc/fink.conf>

The system wide configuration file. You should not need to edit this file 
manually, but rather use C<fink configure> to change fink's settings.

There are however some filds in this file which may prove useful:

=over

=item B<Trees:>

Sets where fink looks for the .info files which describe the packages.
Normally used to choose between the stable/main and unstable/main trees.
Edit this line to use the unstable tree if you want to install packages
from the unstable section, but remember to set it back to use stable
afterwards if you want to use mostly stable packages.
Remember to give some feedback to the package maintainer if you use
unstable packages, you may be the only thing stopping the package from 
being moved into the stable tree.

=item B<ProxyPassiveFTP:>

It is safest to set this to true, it is the default.

=item B<FetchAltDir:>

This is the alternative directory where fink looks for sources.
If you download a package source file (usually .tar.gz) and put it in
this directory, fink will find it and will not download the source again.

=item B<DownloadMethod:>

You have a choice of using either curl or wget to download. 
Set this to wget if you want to use wget for some reason,
the default is currently curl.

=item B<KeepBuildDir:>

The default is false, fink usually removes the source build directory after 
successfully building a package. If you want to keep the build directory,
set this to true. Usually only developers have any need for this field.

=item B<KeepRootDir:>

Similar to the KeepBuildDir option, this allows developers to keep the root
directory around for debugging purposes.

=item B<ProxyHTTP:>

This line is your HTTP proxy settings. You may find it easier to edit this
line directly rather than running fink configure.

=item B<ProxyFTP:>

Your ftp proxy settings.

=item B<Verbose:>

A true or false value which tells fink how verbose it should be.

=back

This file also contains all of your mirror settings, which should be chosen using
C<fink configure>.

=back

=head1 HOMEPAGE

http://fink.sourceforge.net/

=head1 BUGS

Check out fink's bug tracker at
L<http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=17203&atid=117203>
for a current list of known bugs.

=head1 AUTHORS

The original author of 
B<fink>
is Christoph Pfisterer <cp@chrisp.de>.
The current maintainer of
B<fink>
and author of this manpage is Max Horn <max@quendi.de>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apt-get(8) , dselect(8) , dpkg(8)


